.. include:: ../_includes/links.rst

.. |version| replace:: 4.3.0
.. _release_4.3.0:

.. meta::
    :description: Netris Release Notes |version|

Netris |version| (July/31/2024)
==================================

What's new in Netris |version|?
-------------------------------

Features
--------
.. New capabilities visible to customers. One line each; optional 1–2 lines of context.

- **Nvidia Spectrum-X**. Multi-tenant network automation, switch-fabric management, and cloud networking abstraction for Nvidia Spectrum-X AI/GPU cluster networks.
- **Init workflow** (terraform module) for rail-optimized AI/GPU cluster network topologies.
- **Netris2air**. Nvidia Air network simulation plugin that reads the inventory, IPAM, and topology data from Netris controller and creates a simulation (digital twin) of your network in Nvidia Air. Used to simulate fully functional networks before applying on the physical hardware.
- **Parallel Fabrics**. This functionality allows for managing multiple physically separate switch fabrics logically defined in one Netris controller. A common example would be the East-West fabric for the RDMA compute network, the North-South fabric (or TAN—Tenant Access Network), and the out-of-band management (OOB) network.
- **Topology validation**: Validate the actual wiring in comparison to wiring data defined in Netris Topology manager, detect and alarm wiring errors.
- S**erver Cluster (profiling)**. Create VPC, V-Net(VXLAN+Subnet), and other network services by providing a list of servers that should participate in the cluster. Create VRFs, VPCs, VXLANs by server endpoints, not switch ports.
- **AI/GPU network optimization** services such as QoS for RoCE, RoCE Adaptive Routing, and RoCE Congestion Control.
- **NHN Plugin** (Netris Host Networking Plugin) – AI/GPU host networking services for zero-touch configuration of IP addresses, static routes, SuperNIC firmware installation, and AI/GPU networking optimizations enablement on SuperNIC
- **Cumulus Linux version 5.9.1** is now supported by the new NVUE Netris agent.

Bug fixes
---------
.. Customer-facing defect fixes. If internal-only, keep wording generic.

- **Netris Scalability** has been validated for up to 32000 active network links.
- **BGP Numbered/UnNumbered**. The BGP underlay network now supports numbered BGP in addition to previously supported unnumbered.
- **L3VPN VXLAN:** Netris V-Nets now support L3VPN VXLANs in addition to L2VPN.
- **Performance improvements** to Netris controller.

References
----------
.. Link deeper docs; prefer permalinks.

- :doc:`Supported Platforms <../supported-platform-matrix>`
- :doc:`Supported Switch Hardware <../supported-switch-hardware>`
- Schedule a Demo_
- Follow us on LinkedIn_
- Follow us on X-Twitter_
- Join our Slack_

.. End of file
