.. include:: ../_includes/links.rst

.. meta::
    :description: Netris Release Notes 4.5.4

.. _release_4.5.4:

Netris 4.5.4 (Nov/30/2025)
==================================

What's new in Netris 4.5.4?
-----------------------------

Features
--------
.. New capabilities visible to customers. One line each; optional 1–2 lines of context.

- **EVPN-on-Host. Linux Host VTEP.** Any Ubuntu 24.04 host can be configured as an EVPN VTEP, therefore extending the VXLAN overlay into the host.
- **eBGP imports non-default routes.** The operator may now apply a BGP community 0:7 to signal Netris to import any non 0.0.0.0/0 eBGP prefixes into the VPC.
- **Control plane verification of VTEP reachability.** Netris managed VTEPs (switches and Softgates) keep track of the reachability of other Netris VTEPs.
- **CloudStack supported with Cumulus Linux.** CloudStack now integrates with Spectrum-X fabrics running Cumulus Linux.

Bug fixes
---------
.. Customer-facing defect fixes. If internal-only, keep wording generic.

- **DHCP Relay** now supports inter-VPC routing on all :ref:`supported-switch-hardware`.
- **L3VPN** now includes  :ref:`Dell and Broadcom SONiC <overlay-network-functions>`.
- **Controller Management Address** can now be explicitly specified and is correctly reflected in the “one-liner” install command.
- **Controller Management IP** can be explicitly configured in one-liner
- **Performance and UI improvements.**

  - Added NIC stats for Generic/agentless server type derived from switch ports.
  - Improved database scalability in larger deployments.
  - Server Cluster UI now displays members in alphabetical order.
  - Rename Topology Export Full to Cut Sheet.
  - CloudStack agent automatically generates ACLs for intra-subnet communication.
  - Improved collectd optical values export.
  - System ASN range is now editable.

- **Bug fixes.**

  - Fixed backend crash after creating LB service.
  - Fixed the inability to edit NAT rules when a VPC filter is applied.
  - Fixed Inventory Filtering failing under certain conditions.
  - Fixed filtering of ports with unknown states under certain conditions.
  - Fixed NHN ifupdown and netplan support in Spectrum-X v1.2
  - Fixed NVUE check_signal monitor false positives on optical switch ports.
  - Fixed ACL creation time stamp.
  - Fixed RX values in graphs.
  - Fixed filter reset button in ACL listing

- **Deprecated**

  - Routing On Host ASN, Routing Profile
  - VM ASN
  - SoftGate (generic flavor)
  - Calico ASN
  - Built-in chat.


References
----------
.. Link deeper docs; prefer permalinks.

- :doc:`Supported Platforms <../supported-platform-matrix>`
- :doc:`Supported Switch Hardware <../supported-switch-hardware>`
- Schedule a Demo_
- Follow us on LinkedIn_
- Follow us on X-Twitter_

.. End of file
