.. include:: ../_includes/links.rst

.. |version| replace:: 4.5.3
.. _release_4.5.3:

.. meta::
    :description: Netris Release Notes |version|

Netris |version| (August/27/2025)
==================================

What's new in Netris |version|?
-------------------------------

Features
--------
.. New capabilities visible to customers. One line each; optional 1–2 lines of context.

- **DHCP Relay.** L2VPN and L3VPN V-Nets can be configured to relay DHCP requests, enabling PXE boot and external IP address assignment from non-Netris-managed DHCP servers. Operators can configure one or more upstream servers per V-Net.
- **E-BGP termination on V-Net.** It is now possible to establish a switch-terminated BGP peer relationship with a V-Net on a Netris-managed switch.
- **Spectrum-X 1.3 Reference Architecture compatible.**
- **Netris Host Networking plugin (NHN)** now supports ifupdown and netplan.
- **Controller self-monitoring.** The controller now shows the health status of each node in the controller HA cluster and each service running on the controller.

Bug fixes
---------
.. Customer-facing defect fixes. If internal-only, keep wording generic.

- Static routes are now correctly configured only on nodes matching the ApplyTo filter.
- API. Added MAC address parameter to API host type.
- Arista. Fixed configuration of secondary IP address on  V-Net gateway
- Arista. Normalized anycast MAC address generation
- Arista. Corrected configuration save behavior.
- Arista. Fixed missing EOS version in Inventory view.
- Arista. Fixed BGP configuration vanishing on reboot.
- Arista. Fixed missing BGP unnumbered configuration.
- Arista. Fixed display of summary stats.
- Arista. Fixed bug where collectd disappears on reboot.
- Arista. Fixed EOS version not displaying in inventory.
- Arista. Fixed bug where VLAN to VNI map was missing if BGP terminated on V-Net.
- Arista. Keep AAA configuration intact.
- AutoLAG. Now only applies to V-Net member ports.
- SoftGate. Fixed crashing from configuring SNAT /32 with a blackhole.
- SoftGate. Fixed ACL bug where ACLs wouldn’t install facing public connections.
- VPC peering. Fixed error when configuring VPC peering with the default VPC.
- Server Cluster. Fixed subnet creation when one already exists.
- Server Cluster. Fixed erroneous deletions of objects not created by the Server Cluster.
- DHCP Relay. Prevent deletion of VPC if used for DHCP Relay.
- EC-SONiC. Fixed incorrect l2vpn BGP configuration when V-Net terminates on SVI or Softgate.
- Graphs. Fixed incorrect display RX values.
- Fixed agent stuck in loop when creating/editing SNAT rules


References
----------
.. Link deeper docs; prefer permalinks.

- :doc:`Supported Platforms <../supported-platform-matrix>`
- :doc:`Supported Switch Hardware <../supported-switch-hardware>`
- Schedule a Demo_
- Follow us on LinkedIn_
- Follow us on X-Twitter_
- Join our Slack_

.. End of file
