.. include:: ../_includes/links.rst

.. |version| replace:: 4.6.0
.. _release_4.6.0:

.. meta::
    :description: Netris Release Notes |version|

Netris |version| (Jan/31/2026)
==================================

What's new in Netris |version|?
-------------------------------

Features
--------
.. New capabilities visible to customers. One line each; optional 1–2 lines of context.

- **EVPN-on-Host. Linux Host VTEP.** Any Ubuntu 24.04 host can be configured as an EVPN VTEP, therefore extending the VXLAN overlay into the host.
- **NVLink Multi-Node.** Netris can now create NVLink partitions in NVL72 and NVL144 equipped systems.
- **eBGP imports non-default routes.** The operator may now apply a BGP community 0:7 to signal Netris to import any non 0.0.0.0/0 eBGP prefixes into the VPC.
- **Control plane verification of VTEP reachability.** Netris managed VTEPs (switches and Softgates) keep track of the reachability of other Netris VTEPs.
- **CloudStack supported with Cumulus Linux.** CloudStack now integrates with Spectrum-X fabrics running Cumulus Linux.
- **Spectrum-X Deployment Guide compliance is automatic.** Netris will automatically apply correct configuration to appropriate Ethernet components based on the appropriate version of the Spectrum-X Deployment Guide based on the detected Cumulus Linux version.
- **SNMPv2.** Netris can now configure SNMPv2 read-only access on supported switches
- **Inventory Filtering.** Inventory API now supports filtering.
- **Topology View Filtering.** Topology view now supports filtering by device name.
- **Dell/BC-SONiC VPC peering.** VPC peering can now be established on Dell/BC-SONiC Ethernet fabrics.
- **Dell/BC-SONiC L3VPN.** L3VPN is now supported on Dell/BC-SONiC Ethernet fabrics.

Enhancements
------------
.. Customer-facing enhancements to existing functionality and features. If internal-only, keep wording generic.

- **DHCP Relay** now supports inter-VPC routing on all :ref:`supported-switch-hardware`.
- **L3VPN** now includes  :ref:`Dell and Broadcom SONiC <overlay-network-functions>`.
- **Controller Management Address** can now be explicitly specified and is correctly reflected in the “one-liner” install command.
- **Controller Management IP** can be explicitly configured in one-liner
- **Performance and UI improvements.**

  - Add Network > Links page showing all topology links.
  - Tags are now Labels to remove confusion with VLAN tags.
  - Added NIC stats for Generic/agentless server type derived from switch ports.
  - Improved database scalability in larger deployments.
  - Server Cluster UI now displays members in alphabetical order.
  - Rename Topology Export Full to Cut Sheet.
  - CloudStack agent automatically generates ACLs for intra-subnet communication.
  - Improved collectd optical values export.
  - System ASN range is now editable.
  - Can now show more than 4 tx/rx optical signals in Optical Graph.
  - Improved SoftGate HS installation experience.
  - Improved SoftGate HS DNAT and ACL scalability.
  - Added XDP based acceleration for SoftGate HS data plane.

Bug fixes
---------
.. Customer-facing defect fixes. If internal-only, keep wording generic.

  - Fixed backend crash after creating LB service.
  - Fixed the inability to edit NAT rules when a VPC filter is applied.
  - Fixed Inventory Filtering failing under certain conditions.
  - Fixed filtering of ports with unknown states under certain conditions.
  - Fixed NHN ifupdown and netplan support in Spectrum-X v1.2
  - Fixed NVUE check_signal monitor false positives on optical switch ports.
  - Fixed ACL creation time stamp.
  - Fixed RX values in graphs.
  - Fixed filter reset button in ACL listing
  - Fixed NVUE agent restarting, if the previous cycle takes too long.
  - Fixed check_signal incorrectly identifying optical ports.
  - Fixed signal level reporting on 8 lane optics.
  - Fixed incorrectly displaying packet per second values for the RX lines.
  - Fixed custom rules in inventory profile support for any port
  - Fixed static routes applying to all switches when ApplyTo filter is used.
  - Fixed ACLs sometimes filtering even if no filter is applied.
  - Fixed ACL creation time stamp.
  - Fixed tcp-establiashed rules in NVUE working, even when disabled.
  - Fixed controller hanging when malformed create L4LB API request is received.
  - Fixed CPU utilization graph showing incorrect data.
  - Fixed packet fragmentation issue in SoftGate HS.
  - Fixed ACL functionality when used with SNAT.
  - Fixed SNAT to DNAT hairpinning issue.
  - Fixed CloudStack forwarding behavior enforcement.
  - Fixed NHN impacting North-South traffic when configuring East-West host networking.
  - Fixed Topology>Interface>Details showing incorrect optical graph data.


- **Deprecated**

  - Routing On Host ASN, Routing Profile
  - VM ASN
  - SoftGate (generic flavor)
  - Calico ASN
  - Built-in chat.
  - Remove Proxmox, Equinix metal, and PhoenixNap as supported platforms.


References
----------
.. Link deeper docs; prefer permalinks.

- :doc:`Supported Platforms <../supported-platform-matrix>`
- :doc:`Supported Switch Hardware <../supported-switch-hardware>`
- Schedule a Demo_
- Follow us on LinkedIn_
- Follow us on X-Twitter_
- Join our Slack_

.. End of file
