.. include:: ../_includes/links.rst

.. |version| replace:: 4.9.0
.. _release_4.9.0:

Netris |version| Release Notes (Apr/30/2026)
============================================

What's new in Netris |version|?
-------------------------------

Features
--------
.. New capabilities visible to customers. One line each; optional 1–2 lines of context.

- **Added Reference Architecture type selector in Inventory Profiles**.
- **Added support for multi-plane Spectrum-X architecture to Netris Host Networking (NHN) plugin**.
- **Added support for Spectrum-X Reference Architecture version 2.1.2**.
- **Added support for ZTP of NVIDIA switches with Cumulus Linux**.
- **Subnets of purpose type "Management" can now be used in Vnets and VPCs**.



Bug fixes and improvements
----------------------------
.. Customer-facing defect fixes. If internal-only, keep wording generic.

- Fixed NVUE agent issue where custom TLV records were not being purged from configuration when server objects contained customData json with networks defined and no remote port matching.
- Improved routing efficiency in VPC peering scenarios with EVPN-MH enabled.
- Improved /api/v2/ports/{type}/free API performance.
- Improved /api/v2/ebgp/hardwares APP performance.
- Improved /api/v2/hw/ports API performance.
- Improved /api/v2/vnet/ports API performance.
- Admin down ports no longer generate alerts.
- Fixed maintenance mode not being applied to SoftGate nodes when route-map was configured in E-BGP.
- Fixed syslog configuration changes not being applied to Cloudstack nodes.
- Fixed default Deny All policy not being applied.

**Deprecation Notices**

- Removed support for Spectrum-X Reference Architecture version 1.2
- Removed support for Spectrum-X Reference Architecture version 1.3

References
----------
.. Link deeper docs; prefer permalinks.

- :doc:`Supported Platforms <../supported-platform-matrix>`
- :doc:`Supported Switch Hardware <../supported-switch-hardware>`
- Schedule a Demo_
- Follow us on LinkedIn_
- Follow us on X-Twitter_
- Join our Slack_

.. End of file
